---
layout: post
title:  Post-Holiday Blues
tags:   sqlcop

synopsis: In which I explain my absence and get everything back on track.
---

# {{ page.title }}

{{ page.synopsis }}
{: .subtitle }

-----

An entire week has passed since my last post. That doesn't feel very "make a
post every day"-ish to me. I do feel a twinge of guilt over the matter,
letting myself down more than anything because, if I'm not mistaken, no one
really reads this thing. A couple of those guys listed in the right column
might swing by every now and then, but I don't have a commitment to any
specific person or group. Just myself.

## Good Things Come to Those Who Wait but Work Hard During the Interim

Last Tuesday was an odd day. Technically, I logged a vacation day.
Realistically, I participated in a conference call with the overlords of
development at the company for which I work. We talked about this little PAC
toolkit I built to help build applications on the sanctioned platform. My
boss and I saw that others were creating spaghetti and I wanted lasagna.

Turns out the overlords knew that they had missed out on that opportunity and
decided that my little toolkit should become the standard for app development
across our entire organization.

Normally, that's not a huge statement: across our entire organization. Thing
is, "our entire organization" where I work represents thousands of developers.

And, I get to support it. I get to participate in shaping the philosophy and
implementation of literally hundreds of applications. That's pretty amazing.

That's a legacy.

## And, Then, *cough*

Alas, the next day, I fell victim to the cold snap. So, I laid in bed for a
couple of days. Illness affects me in a not untoward manner. I feel somewhat
euphoric during my time nestled beneath the comforter in the guest room.

I watched a lot of movies. Well, technically, I fell asleep during a lot of
movies. But, I did see *Gentlemen Broncos* during which I stayed awake,
thankfully, because I enjoyed the movie. Kind of a marriage between
*Napolean Dynamite* and *The Gamers: Dorkness Rising* but with higher
production value than either of those.

## And, Then, Gifts

Well, not so much for me, but the family. What I did receive, though, met with
my high regard.

My brother-in-law replaced my missing volume of __The Gun Seller__ by Hugh
Laurie, a book that causes me to LOL while reading it.

My sister-in-law bought for me __Ender in Exile__ by Orson Scott Card. It
fills the gap between __Ender's Game__ and __Speaker for the Dead__. If you
haven't read these and you like character-driven science fiction, then you
probably should. Even though the main character, Ender, can get a little
whiny at times.

My mother-in-law replaced my missing copy of __The Name of the Rose__ by
Umberto Eco, a brilliant book that turned into an entertaining movie with Sean
Connery and Christian Slater. The movie, however, does not capture the depth
and nuance of the debate surrounding comedy, the philosophical dual between
the Franciscan and Benedictine monks, nor the amazing influence of Sir Roger
Bacon on critical thinking in the western world.

My father-in-law gave me a new grill. I haven't put it outside, yet, but I
salivate even now with the thought of grilling up some buffalo burgers.

My other father-in-law blessed me with a mandoline. I still have all of my
finger tips, but that may not be the case in the future.

## And, Then, More Holiday

Finally, Monday, yesterday, I had too many books to read to want to sit at my
computer to type. So I read. And cooked. And dreaded the fact that I had to
return to work the next day.

## sqlcop Update

It seems that I made 26 commits, last Tuesday, to
[sqlcop](http://github.com/realistschuckle/sqlcop). I finally got to move away
from SELECT/FROM statements into richer statements. sqlcop now recognizes the
following:

* In the column list
  * operators
  * literals
  * aliases with AS
  * aliases without AS
  * aliases by assignment
  * method invocations
  * subselects
* Remote server table names
* SELECT/INTO statements
* The TABLESAMPLE modifier

I was in the middle of adding table hints to the SELECT statement when I
decided to go to sleep so that I could awaken sick. Hooray!

Back to that old grind stone, tomorrow, because I have about 1000 emails
through which I must sort, today.

