---
layout: post
title:  "About This Site"
tags:   

synopsis: In which I hope I don't waste your time with my ideas about curtis.schlak.com.
---

# {{ page.title }}

{{ page.synopsis }}
{: .subtitle }

-----

I planned to write a really good post, today, that clarifies my thoughts about
the decisions behind C♭. Unfortunately, I didn't start this post until 8:45pm
without the same fiery passion that I normally bring to these. Instead, I
think I'll just do some stream-of-consciouness poo.

On the [front page](/), I currently have a non-exhaustive list of items on the
desk in my home office. This weekend, I think I'll change that to something
more interesting. And, this is what I think I'll do...

## Write fiction

I've always wanted to write fiction. I have a couple of good story arcs in my
mind. I think I'll pick one and stick with writing it like I have tried to do
with this blog, one-post-per-day. That means that the weekend should see
post-per-weekend of, hopefully, a chapter. That should allow those of you that
like it to have time to read the chapter sometime during the week.

If you have a preference for any of the following titles, please express it as
a comment at the end of this section.

### Left for Dead

Book 1 of The Peripheral Volume
{: .subtitle }

The story explores the relationship between a hard-as-nails private
invetigator and her uneasy relationship with a man who has the power to sense
the residue caused by the death of any living creature by looking into what he
calls "The Left."" They must partner together to prevent a near extinction of
the human race.

### The Pentatuch

A novel in five parts set in the 1980s midwest that observes the actions of an
amoral man as he joins a group of traveling sales people. As "Wall Street"
exposed the greed and power-mongering in the financial sector, this story does
with the humble two-bit, blue collar hustler.

### The Jester's Court

Ten years after leaving college, five former friends receive letters from a
dead woman inviting them to reunite at their college in Northern California.
When they assemble, their latent individual powers activate. They must use
them to discover which of the members of their group is a killer before
another person dies.

### Apostolic Mine

A devout man of God believes he has discovered a secret about how to restore
the gifts of the Holy Spirit to the peoples of the world bringing about a new
paradise on Earth. A sixteen year old girl and her younger brother must stop
him before his plan destroys civilization.

### The Widower's Plan

Nineteen years after the death of his wife and daughter during labor, a man
meets a seductive young woman who leads him beyond sense and reason into
ever-increasing self-destructive acts. Before his own appetites consume him,
he must discover the secrets of his seducer to break her hold over him.

### Fang and Claw

In a world nearly completely populated by werewolves and vampires living
together under a thousand-year truce, two young mismatched friends set off to
discover the secret of the "Pureville," the long lost settlement of the last
of the human tribe.
