---
layout: post
title:  Maintainability and Code Organization
tags:   splm

synopsis: Probably a rant, most definitely a diatribe.
---

# {{ page.title }}

{{ page.synopsis }}
{: .subtitle }

-----

I really like programming computers. As I grow older in my profession, I
really like reading source code that I can maintain. Maintenance must be our
primary concern when we write our code. Because, someone else will need to
change it, one day, and they'll have to understand it.

Most of the dev blogs that I read talk about solutions and patterns. I value
those topics highly. I like to know what other folks not bound by the chains
of big IT have created. However, when they talk about object-oriented code, I
sometimes sense a mysticism about it. When others write about functional
programming, I sense an even stronger transcendentalism.

But, let's distill the nonsense away and talk about the _real_ motivation
for object-oriented programming: better code organization. Paritioning the
behavior of the system into logical containers that manage the data on which
the behavior relies, that's object-oriented programming. We can communicate
our ideas of related behavior better with a named class like `Car` than a
set of files that contain functions that work on a `CAR` structure.

With that said, please follow some simple rules when writing your code. It'll
make those that did not write the code appreciate it all the more.

1. __Let's keep our lines within 80 characters.__  
I know this seems a little 1970s. However, go look at a book. Go look at
almost anything created with TeX. Our eyes crave narrow text flow. We can
parse information better that way. And, since source code contains almost 100%
information, we need all the help we can get when reading it.

1. __Favor composition over inheritance, espeically for DRYing code.__  
Inheritance hides the contract that our object will expose to the system. Too
much of that will make the reader have to retain too much knowledge to
comprehend your implementation. The "Extract Method to Superclass" refactoring
pattern will almost always lead to trouble. We should, instead, "Extract
Method to Helper Class." C# developers, that does _not_ mean `public static.`

1. __When you hit 500 SLOCs for a class, that might be bad design.__  
In an interview, I once asked the candidate, "How big of a method is too
big."  
He thought for a moment and replied, "When it's bigger than my head."  
I smiled. "You mean when it's too much for you to understand at once?"  
"No. I mean if I hold my head up to the screen and the method is longer than
my head, that method is too big."

1. __Practice the Law of Demeter though it hurts. Badly.__  
I hate to comply with the
[Law of Demeter](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Demeter "LoD"). I have to
type a lot of boilerplate crap. I don't like it. Not one bit. Because every
SLOC I write could have a bug. But, darn it, LoD will ensure that I can look
at the code and know exactly on what it depends. And, the code that uses
that class will only know that class. It's the Principal of Least Knowledge at
its finest.

1. __If you write unit tests, practice writing unit tests.__  
We have spent a lot of time honing our craft as programmers. We learn how to
use different libraries, languages, programming paradigms, methodologies, and
more. We continually make our OO design practices better. But, a lot of
programmers have immature testing styles. Practice that unit testing until it
becomes second nature. Patterns exist, there, just like in OO. Discover them.

1. __When you mix language paradigms, do it consistently.__  
A lot of hybrid languages now exist, those that mingle aspects of procedural,
object-oriented, and functional programming. If you decide to use those
features in your code, make sure to do it consistently. I recently worked on
a .NET project where the major contributor "discovered" .NET "lambdas" about
halfway through the project's timeline. After that event, almost every method
took a lambda of some sort. Half of the implementation used OO, the other used
the half-ass functional programming of C#. Messy. Plain messy.

