---
layout: post
title:  Announcing sqlcop
tags:   tools, language, t-sql

synopsis: In which I announce a little project called sqlcop.
---
"Where's my [fiction](/2011/12/16/ramble.html)," you demand.

Sorry. I went and wrote about how I want to write fiction and then spend my
weekend working on software. That's awfully inconsistent. Shame on me. Unlike
many of my open-source projects, though, I think this one may have merit.

When I got my first contract with Microsoft to help them build their
Sarbanes-Oxley tools, I delivered a nice little solution that allowed big-four
accounting firm clients to import their engagement data into a common
repository for compliance analysis and reporting. When I submitted my code,
the Microsoft guys rejected it because it had FxCop warnings. At the time I
had only one question to that: what the heck's FxCop?

When I downloaded it and ran it against my code, I felt truly amazed. What a
cool static analysis tool, like lint for .NET. Then came StyleCop which
allowed us to perform stylistic analysis. These two tools remain a part of my
.NET programming arsenal.

If you don't use at least one of these tools in your checkin and/or
continuous integration processes, then I think you've really missed a great
opportunity to standardize your code base with "best practices" and "common
coding standards."

## sqlcop: FxCop and StyleCop for SQL

In some converstations that I had with some really smart guys, I realized that
no such creature exists for SQL analysis. We have loads of tools to check SQL
syntax, generate SQL, and import/export SQL, but nothing to enforce "best
practices" and "common coding standards" with SQL, stored procedure, and other
RDBMS interactivity.

"So," I thought, "why not just write something to do that?"

You can check it out over at the
[sqlcop](http://github.com/realistschuckle/sqlcop) repository on GitHub.

The project doesn't have a usable build, yet, but the T-SQL parsing is coming
along pretty nicely. I should have an engine, a parser, and some rules in the
next week or so.

I'll be writing about it during this next week. If you're not interested in
its development, come on back next Monday; I'll probably have moved onto
another subject at that time. Until that time, I'll chat about sqlcop's
implementation and interesting features of T-SQL that I come across like...

## T-SQL Common Table Expressions (CTE)

I had no idea that these existed, but they allow you to declare
self-referencing queries that get stored into a temporary result set similar
to a temp table or table variable.

Did you read that: _self-referencing queries_!

That's right! You can declare recursive structures in your SQL! I don't know
how well they perform and don't want to spend the time measuring them, but I
had no idea that Microsoft SQL Server supported such a beast. I might even
use them, one day.

But, for right now, I'm more interested in parsing their declarations.

