---
layout: post
title:  "Let&#39;s Make a Language: C♭ - Part 1 Revisited"
tags:   C♭

synopsis: In which I clarify some of my decisions about C♭ and document a new feature.
---

# {{ page.title }}

{{ page.synopsis }}
{: .subtitle }

-----

I talked with my friend [philipmat](http://philipm.at/), today, about some of
the bad practices that I identified for C♭. After our conversation, he
recommended that I take some time to clarify my perspective.

After that, my friend `eb^2` and I talked about the post and he raised some
reservations.

So, here, I will do that without irony, but with sincerity, instead.

The following sections contain some clarifications for the "features" of C♭
that I identified in [Part 1](/2011/12/12/ramble.html).

## Methods only take one parameter and it's a lambda/Func/Action.
philipmat and I agree that passing a callable to a method has a real place in
design, most notably when we pass filter functions to LINQ methods or when we
pass a factory function to Autofac's registration methods. We should also pass
lambdas as arguments when the target method expects an `Expression` for
runtime inspection of abstract syntax trees.

However, when we pass anonymous methods as part of the behavior of a class,
then we've strayed from comprehensible code. We've left the world of good
object-oriented programming. That may sound like too purist of a view;
however, we must write maintainable code, code that others can understand.
When I have to jump back and forth and 

philipmat suggested that I make the requirement read something like

> Methods only take on parameters and it must be a lambda expression at least
> four lines long.

I like that idea. However, to be honest with you, that makes the C♭
transcompiler more difficult to write. So, out of self interest, I will leave
the requirement alone.

## The compiler fails to compile a file with any XML documentation.
I believe that I live in rare company as a programmer that expects to have and
make quality documentation for end users, fellow developers, and management.
These documents, often, bear no similarity to one another. For developers, in
their IDE of choice (VS2010?), XML documentation can provide contextual help
without having to navigate outside of the IDE.

A lot of projects that I've seen, though, have no embedded documentation. Or,
when it does, the developer has left the documentation empty or used a
generator like GhostDoc to make the documentation.

As with code, documentation should have some though behind it. If it merely
parrots the method's name or the get/set accessibility of a property, that
documentation has no meaning.

In OO, behavior is king! (I sure do write that a lot.) Instead of writing for
a property "Gets and sets the value of Poop," instead, write about the side
affects of setting `Poop`. That is what we want to know. How many C#
properties have you seen that have no public getter? Very few, I bet.

## The compiler will automatically generate an interface for each class.

This requirement caused the most conversation, the most controversy. To
paraphrase philipmat (any misrepresentation is my own):

> I want programmers to program against interfaces! They should not rely on
> implementations. They should not have the ability to use the `new` operator
> without approval. Instead, they should ask for an implementation from a DI
> container that will fulfill their expectations.

I agreed!

This requirement comes from the blind way in which many C# programmers make
their decisions about the interfaces that they create. Interfaces are about
the behavior that they declare, not about the implementation that follows. We
should use interfaces to comply with the
[Principle of Least Knowledge](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Demeter)
which often coincides with the
[Principle of Least Astonishment](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principle_of_least_astonishment).

In a facetious and silly mood, philipmat named an interface
`ICanHazCheezeburger`. I laughed and then went on about my business. Later
that evening I realized that how he named that interface had an implicit
and immutable truth to it: it described behavior. The really smart
contributors to the C2 wiki have a great thread named
[Interfaces Should Be Adjectives](http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?InterfacesShouldBeAdjectives).
I agree with this.

Because the age-old naming convention for interfaces in .NET dictates "an
interface's name should begin with 'I'," it makes sense to use that "I" as the
personal pronoun for the interface.

For example, I recently started a project in which I wrote an interface that
described the common behavior for classes that act like a catalog for rules in
the system. In the old days, I would have named it "IRuleCatalog". However,
that does not describe behavior. To make that comply with my philosophical
perspective, I made the name "ICatalogRules." It reads like an English
sentence, tells me what the collection of behavior achieves, and truly
distinguishes the name semantically from the implementors of the interface
like "SimpleRuleCatalog".

So, I rail against the knee-jerk, poorly-considered "my `Nachos` class has an
interface `INachos`." That makes little sense when viewed from my perspective
of object-oriented programming and the correct use of interfaces.

I see a lot of developers do it, though. I think it bad. Hence, I put it in
the language.

-----

If you have any other objections or some additions to C♭, please post them in
the comments because I _will_ forget them. For example, philipmat brought up
a glaring deficiency in my requirements which I have now forgotten. Sorry,
man. Perhaps you can remind me, again, later.

Hmmm.... I'm trying to remember it....

Nope. Can't. Darn it! Damn my feeble short-term memory!

Oh, wait! REGIONS! Yes, regions. Ok, one more feature of C♭.

-----

## All methods must be enclsed in a region. Any method over 10 lines long must have regions inside it.

I hate regions. I delete them when I see them in a project on which I work. If
you need to collapse your code at artificial levels because you have so much
of it, consider that you've engaged in bad design and your class has not
complied to the
[SRP](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_responsibility_principle).

I once worked on a project where (ZOMG! WTF!?) someone had written methods so
long that they included regions in the method body itself. I get the willies
thinking about it, even now.

So, regions are stupid. Therefore, C♭ must enforce their usage.

